The Joe Rogan experience.
But it's like USA is one of very few countries that competes clean.
And so it's like, how do you compete? You know? Yeah. Uh,
so he had this outside pressure of, to like produce an athlete,
whether it was the right way or wrong way. Isn't.
That up? That statement that you just said, but I know it to be true.
When you said the USA is one of the few countries that competes clean that's
it's actually true. Oh, it's and so strange.
I remember at the junior world that I competed that the winning guy in my weight
class snatched more than what I clean a jerked. Like he,
this like 18 year old kid and he like power snatched, 155 kilos.
It was where where's he from? I wanna say he was
like somewhere over in Europe and I'm pretty sure it was like the whole podium
got popped. <laugh> it's kinda like, I remember like the 2008 Olympics,
like the 94 kilo class, they started testing down and it's like,
like currently it's like ninth place guy has the bronze medal because they just
kept testing down, down, down. So did.
They pop 'em right after the competition? Or did they pop 'em future?
I think its.
Years, years later, cuz it's like at the time with the drug,
they don't know how to test for. Right.
And so they save the samples and then years later they figure out how to test
for this stuff. Did.
You see IOUs?
I, I watched like the first bit of it. Uh, yeah.
I haven't seen the whole thing yet. It's.
Nuts. Yeah. It's.
Nuts. I mean, it's just crazy. Like if there's a sport with money,
people are gonna start bringing drugs into.
It. Well, the,
the crazy thing about that was that it was a Russian state sponsor.
They sponsored the entire dope. They, they DOD everyone, that guy, uh, Gregory,
uh Chenko mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah,
the guy who was the supposed anti-doping guy from Russia,
he's had the only people they didn't dope were the figure skaters because, uh,
they, they found that the figure skating, it actually interfered with, uh,
fine motor skills. Really? Yeah. So, so, and made the women too manly.
So kind of funny about that. My parents were both figure skaters. Whoa.
And so they they're both Olympians 1976, like no. Yeah. Pair freestyle.
And my dad talks about like,
he would be in the locker room and like different countries. They, he was like,
they just had their syringes on the, on the bench. Oh my God. And he was like,
you'd come in after your session on the ice.
And he's like the German team's just there. Like,
like they're not even hiding it because it was legal.
It like, well, they.
Didn't test for yeah. They didn't know, you know.
But the American team did that too back then supposedly. Oh really? Yeah.
I was reading this thing about Bruce Jenner, where they were talking about all,
all the that they gave him when he was winning the decathlon.
And then they gave to every apparently post when it was,
uh, post the, the, uh,
Eastern Europeans winning like a lot of weight lifting competitions.
And then it was clear that they were experi experimenting with different kinds
of.
Steroids. I remember reading the article, uh,
like they were testing it at York barbell. And like,
I remember reading these journal entries from the lifters and some, uh,
they, they were bolting the bars,
like to the ground or to squat racks and they would take the drugs and then
just push on the bars as hard as they can.
Cuz their theory was like the heaviest bar you can lift is the one you cannot.
And it was like, huh, what? And some of these lifters are saying like, yo,
these pills or these injections are where everything is coming from. Like,
this is where all my gains are coming from. And then others were like, no,
no it's the training methodology. Like the drugs have nothing to do with it.
I'm just hitting all these personal records. Hmm. Yeah.
Maybe a little bit of both. <laugh>.
I think, I think I know which one, which ones? I.
Sure, sure. But I mean, you know, you, don't just taking the drugs,
doesn't make you stronger. You have to actually lift the weights,
but for sure the drugs are helping like this,
the idea that the drugs don't help.
I've actually seen someone argue that before. Oh, I,
that steroids are useless and, and if you train properly,
they actually get in the way I was like, what are you talking about?
No. What are you talking about? I mean,
there's been a couple people that like in CrossFit that got popped and they're
like, oh, the drugs weren't even doing anything. And it's like, oh.
Silly boy. <laugh> of course they were. Yeah. They work.
There's a reason why they're so prevalent.
And there's a reason why they test for 'em. Yeah.
They don't test for things that don't work.
They're not testing you for Cheerios. You know, they're test, they test you for.
They really.
Work. I mean like the, the one guy,
the one guy that he was on the podium at the games and then got popped, oh,
I competed against him month, like six or eight months prior. And like the,
the one stat, like he was snatching like two 60 or 2 65.
And then he shows up to the games and snatches like two 90 and he's taken,
he almost hit 300 and he's like, no, no, the drugs had nothing to do with it.
It's like.
I bet they, I did. Yeah. I.
Don't believe that. And it's like,
like you've been in the sport for years. Like if you're just a beginner,
you can make progress like that. But I'm like,
you've been in the sport for years. Yeah.
And then in the last six months you just had this huge spike in your performance
and you're like, oh no, it's just because I dedicated. It's like,
I'm not buying it.
Yeah. So important to be dedicated <laugh> now how often do they test
everybody?
I mean, pretty often do they.
Show up randomly?
Yeah. Yeah. So we have outta competition, drug testing. Um, you know,
it's like when I did weightlifting, we we're on like the Nan programs.
No advanced notice. So you had to give, if you're in the Olympic sports,
you're tested by the Olympic association,
you have to give one hour a day of where you are and
they show up, they don't call nothing.
So like everyone put from like five to 6:00 AM. I'll be in my dorm room.
And like, if you're leaving for the airport at like four 50,
you'll see someone sitting outside the dorm, just like looking at their watch,
waiting for 5:00 AM to hit and give the knock and like, they'll follow you.
They come with you to school work. Doesn't matter what you're doing.
Will they make you miss a flight?
Uh, yeah, probably. I I'd assume they would, but I mean,
like I remember having to talk to professors of like, I have an exam and like,
I didn't have to pee.
So I'm like guys gotta come to class with me and having to like explain to a
professor of like, Hey, like these guys are here for drug testing.
I compete in the sport. Is it okay if they just sit there in? Wow. Yeah.
So the CrossFit, how creepy. I mean, it's weird.
Like I've had it before where they showed up at 5:00 AM. I didn't have to pee.
And I'm like, yo, it's 5:00 AM. I'm going back to bed. And they're,
they're like, yep. We'll sit right.
Here. So they just sit in the room while you're sleeping. Yeah.
They just pull up a chair and they'll just sit there,
just stare at you while you're.
Sleep, go back to bed. How.
Can you sleep while this guy,
can you just like put on the TV or something for him? And like,
you just go back to bed. <laugh> I mean,
after a while you get used to it of like the first time having to take a drug
test in front of someone it's weird. Like, yeah. They're inspecting you.
They have to look.
Yeah. Making sure it's not rubber.
And uh, and then I'm mean now it's like, I don't even break conversation.
It's like, it happens so often every competition outta competition,
you get to know the guy that's like in your region for drug testing.
Did CrossFit always have drug testing?
I, I don't know. I don't know if enough about the history. I think it's newer.
Um, but yeah, with the CrossFit drug testing,
I remember the first time I got drug tested cuz when I first got on the sport,
I was like, I think these guys are doping. Like I don't believe it.
And I didn't know about the drug testing protocols and then I had to sign up for
it cuz I was doing well enough in the sport.
And then I get a phone call of like, Hey,
this is so and so from the drug testing where your name got old
and I was, I was honestly excited. Cause I'm like, oh sweet.
They do regulate this. This is great. So I was like, yeah,
I'm at the address that I listed, come on in doors unlocked. And he is like,
oh no, no, no we'll be there tomorrow. And I was like, what? I'm like,
you're call, you're giving me a day's notice. I don't like that at all.
Like you.
Can flush your system out in a day. Right. I have.
A lot of things. I have to assume that if you, if you know what you're doing,
you have a plan B like you have to assume that you're gonna get tested at some
point. Right?
How can they, I know that the, you saw stopped allowing people to use IVs.
Cuz one of the things they said about IVs allows you to flush your system out.
I did, you.
Can test negative. I never knew the reasoning.
I remember it was coming up like those IV bars that like they just
jam, pack it full of vitamins. Mm-hmm <affirmative> whatever,
like these super doses. And it's like started as like a hangover cure. Right,
right. Um,
and I remember that was getting pitched like other people around me were doing
'em and they're like, you should do this. And I'm like, all right.
My livelihood depends on not breaking the rules. So I'm like,
and I'm contacting people at CrossFit like, Hey, is this allowed?
And it's like right there in the rule book of like no IVs over 50
milliliters or something equipment to like a tablespoon or two tablespoons.
So I was like, oh, okay. That's not allowed not doing that. But yeah. I mean.
So you can't even do IV vitamin trips. Mm-hmm interesting. Yeah.
But you can do some IVs. Like I said, no IVs.
I think if it's a medical emergency. So like if you're super dehydrated. Yeah.
So like if you're in and like getting hospitalized or like there's a,
a need for it. I think it's allowed.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experie on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost all for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app. Oh two Spotify.
Now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.